# touhou-project
## Introduction
This aim of this project was to build an arcade space-themed shooter taking inspiration from the Japanese 90s game Touhou Project. The game consists of controlling a playable character to avoid waves of enemies, each of which can shoot bullets at the player. The player loses a life each time he hits a projectile, and when three lives are lost, the game ends. The player can avoid enemies and projectiles by using the arrow keys to move the character around the playable space. A laser gun can be used to shoot enemies, and upon contact with its beam they will disappear. If needed, the player can activate a spell card up to 3 times per life to immediately despawn all visible enemies and projectiles. The player score, as well as the life and spell counters can be found to the right of the playable area and are updated each time the player kills an enemy, loses a life, and uses a spell card respectively. 

## Design 
The high-level structure of the hardware consists of several On-Chip-Memory blocks storing important data for multiple different sprites, which is then accessed by a number of color mappers depending on the current pixel being drawn. The color mappers feed RGB data for each pixel to the vga_avl_text_interface module, which prioritizes which sprite should be drawn, and outputs the RGB signal to the top-level module. The software side consists of a NIOS II/e processor implemented on the same die and connected to the OCM blocks via the Avalon bus to allow it to read and write to them freely.

For more information on the game see final-lab-report.pdf
